## Post-Process the Application Schemas

After the schemas have been generated they will need to be
post-processed. The post-processing script referenced in APPENDIX C will
need to be modified in in order to accommodate your Application.

### Include Application Namespace Prefix

FIXM standardly adds "Type" to the end of the name of all of the types
declared in its schemas. In order to avoid doing this to built-in XSD
types, the post-processing script uses namespace prefixes to determine
which types it should modify. To accommodate this, your Application’s
namespace prefix needs to be added to the script for proper processing.

1.  First, locate the else clause near the end of the script that
    contains the comment:

> \# Add "Type" to the end of all FIXM type names (both declaration and
> use).

1.  In this section, you will see a series of search and replace
    commands. The bottom three of these have a portion that lists out
    all the namespace prefix options used by the FIXM schemas as part of
    the search field. These lines need to be modified to include the
    namespace prefix used by your Application.

For the example created here, this change should be implemented as shown
below (modification in red):

> $line =\~
> s/&lt;xs:(restriction\|extension).\*base="(fb\|fx\|xmg):\[^"\]\*/$&Type/;
>
> $line =\~
> s/&lt;xs:(attribute\|element).\*type="(fb\|fx\|xmg):\[^"\]\*/$&Type/;
>
> $line =\~ s/&lt;xs:list.\*itemType="(fb\|fx\|xmg):\[^"\]\*/$&Type/;

### Set Up and Use Package-Wide Include Files

When parsing schemas, some XML tools only recognize and process the
first “import” element encountered for any given namespace. If a schema
were split across two or more files and only one file were imported due
to this behavior, this would cause obvious problems, as half or more of
your schema could be ignored as a result.

FIXM combats this issue by creating schema files that contain “include”
elements for every single file in a given namespace and then uses these
wide reaching schema files anytime it uses an “import” element. This
way, FIXM only needs one “import” to be processed in order to deliver
the whole schema as intended. FIXM also creates schema files with a mix
of imports and includes to serve as entry points into the standard,
serving the same purpose as the “include” only schema files but also
gathering together everything that will be needed in one place for tools
set up to only process single file schemas.

The term FIXM generally uses when referring to these sorts of files is
“package-wide include files”, or just “include files”, and FIXM makes
broad use of these files to increase its usability with a number of XML
tools. The schema files that will be used for this are generated by
Sparx EA, but it is the post-processing script that creates the actual
import and/or include elements within these files. Depending on the
complexity and structure of your Application, you may need many of
these.

1.  Directly above the section of the post-processing script referenced
    in the previous step (for adding “Type” to type names), locate the
    series of elsif clauses with conditionals along the lines of:

elsif ($schema =\~ /\\/\[filename\].xsd/)

1.  At the end of this section, directly after the closing brace of the
    last elsif clause in the series, add your own elsif clauses for
    setting up your Application’s include files. The conditionals need
    to be set up to match your include files’ names.

2.  In the body of the clause, add import and/or include elements for
    the schema files as needed.

The following two subsections discuss how to these clauses should be
constructed in more detail.

#### Include Only Files

Anytime your schema is split across multiple files, you will need to
create an include file to gather all the pieces together in a single
file. For the example Application created here, this happens for the
schemas using the “http://www.fixm.aero/flight/4.2” namespace in three
locations. Once each under the two message templates (ArrivalAlert and
DepartureAlert) and once for the “Includes” file used to gather together
all instances of the flight namespace used throughout the templates in
one place. Below are the elsif clauses that can be used to add the
content needed for these three include only files:

\# Add package-wide includes to ExampleAA\_Flight.xsd

elsif ($schema =\~ /\\/ExampleAA\_Flight.xsd/)

{

$line = "\\t&lt;xs:include
schemaLocation=\\"./arrival/ExampleAA\_Arrival.xsd\\"/&gt;\\n" .

"\\t&lt;xs:include
schemaLocation=\\"./flightdata/ExampleAA\_FlightData.xsd\\"/&gt;\\n" .

$line;

}

\# Add package-wide includes to ExampleDA\_Flight.xsd

elsif ($schema =\~ /\\/ExampleDA\_Flight.xsd/)

{

$line = "\\t&lt;xs:include
schemaLocation=\\"./departure/ExampleDA\_Departure.xsd\\"/&gt;\\n" .

"\\t&lt;xs:include
schemaLocation=\\"./flightdata/ExampleDA\_FlightData.xsd\\"/&gt;\\n" .

$line;

}

\# Add package-wide includes to ExampleFlight.xsd

elsif ($schema =\~ /\\/ExampleFlight.xsd/)

{

$line = "\\t&lt;xs:include
schemaLocation=\\"./arrivalalert/flight/ExampleAA\_Flight.xsd\\"/&gt;\\n"
.

"\\t&lt;xs:include
schemaLocation=\\"./departurealert/flight/ExampleDA\_Flight.xsd\\"/&gt;\\n"
.

$line;

}

#### Import and Include Files

Import and include files serve a similar purpose to the include only
files mentioned above but also act as general entry points, gathering
together everything that would be needed to process a certain part of
FIXM in a single file. There are three such entry points in the example
Application created here. One each for the two message templates
(ArrivalAlert and DepartureAlert) as well as one for the entry point
used to bind these two templates together under the Application
(ExampleTemplates). Below are the elsif clauses that can be used to
create the content needed for these three import and include files:

\# Add package imports/includes to ArrivalAlert.xsd

elsif ($schema =\~ /\\/ArrivalAlert.xsd/)

{

$line = "\\t&lt;xs:import
namespace=\\"http://www.fixm.aero/flight/4.2\\"
schemaLocation=\\"./flight/ExampleAA\_Flight.xsd\\"/&gt;\\n" .

"\\t&lt;xs:include
schemaLocation=\\"./examplemessage/ExampleAA\_ExampleMessage.xsd\\"/&gt;\\n"
.

$line;

}

\# Add package imports/includes to DepartureAlert.xsd

elsif ($schema =\~ /\\/DepartureAlert.xsd/)

{

$line = "\\t&lt;xs:import
namespace=\\"http://www.fixm.aero/flight/4.2\\"
schemaLocation=\\"./flight/ExampleDA\_Flight.xsd\\"/&gt;\\n" .

"\\t&lt;xs:include
schemaLocation=\\"./examplemessage/ExampleDA\_ExampleMessage.xsd\\"/&gt;\\n"
.

$line;

}

\# Add package imports/includes to ExampleTemplates.xsd

elsif ($schema =\~ /\\/ExampleTemplates.xsd/)

{

$line = "\\t&lt;xs:import namespace=\\"http://www.fixm.aero/base/4.2\\"
schemaLocation=\\"../../../core/base/Base.xsd\\"/&gt;\\n" .

"\\t&lt;xs:import namespace=\\"http://www.fixm.aero/flight/4.2\\"
schemaLocation=\\"./ExampleFlight.xsd\\"/&gt;\\n" .

"\\t&lt;xs:include
schemaLocation=\\"./arrivalalert/examplemessage/ExampleAA\_ExampleMessage.xsd\\"/&gt;\\n"
.

"\\t&lt;xs:include
schemaLocation=\\"./departurealert/examplemessage/ExampleDA\_ExampleMessage.xsd\\"/&gt;\\n"
.

$line;

}

### Modify Import Elements to Use Include Files

You will also need to replace “import” elements generated by Sparx EA
with elements that make use of the files you just set up. The
post-processing script handles this task as well, replacing all import
elements for a given namespace with a single import using the include
file. In the example Application created here, only imports using the
“http://www.fixm.aero/flight/4.2” namespace need to be modified.

1.  Locate the else clause near the beginning of the script that
    contains the comment:

\# Replace Flight package imports with a single import of appropriate
Flight.xsd

1.  Locate the series of elsif clauses in this section with conditionals
    along the lines of:

elsif ($schema =\~ /\\/\[template directory name\]\\//)

1.  At the end of this section, directly between the final elsif and the
    closing else clause, add your own elsif clauses for replacing
    existing import statements with ones that make use of the broader
    include files.

In this example, these new clauses should be added to address this
issue:

elsif ($schema =\~ /\\/arrivalalert\\//)

{

$line = $match . "ExampleAA\_Flight.xsd\\"/&gt;\\n";

}

elsif ($schema =\~ /\\/departurealert\\//)

{

$line = $match . "ExampleDA\_Flight.xsd\\"/&gt;\\n";

}

Finally, as noted in APPENDIX C, be careful not to run your modified
post-processing script against any schema files that have already been
post-processed. To avoid this issue, either regenerate the Core schemas
you need before post-processing the entire schemas directory or only run
the script exclusively against the generated Applications schemas.

