# Guidelines for FIXM Development
This section provides guidelines for the development of FIXM, and addresses the often competing requirements of a forward-looking 'ideal' model and the support of legacy systems and formats during transition. 

## Content versus Presentation
The intent of FIXM is to model the information elements and structure of flight information. That is, the concern is what constitutes a flight, and how the elements relate to each other. FIXM does not dictate how that flight information is packaged, transmitted, used, or presented to human stakeholders. The physical FIXM model is encoded as Extensible Markup Language (XML). XML is aimed at system-to-system communication. While humans can read XML, it is not designed for human consumption. Certainly, a flight dispatcher or air traffic controller would never be exposed to FIXM XML. Rath er, a user interface would be provided for such stakeholders, which presents  the content of the FIXM encoded flight information in an operationally meaningful manner.

FIXM reflects the modern best practice that content and presentation should be separate concerns. The benefit of such an approach is that development of FIXM can focus purely on content. Model development is not distracted by issues such as whether a FIXM encoded flight is directly understandable by a human; the concern is "what is a flight". The related Aeronautical Information Exchange Model (AIXM) and Weather Information Exchange Model (WXXM) standards for resource and environmental information exchange similarly focus on content and structure.

## Structure vs. Custom Decoding
It is stated in the FF- ICE manual: "Inefficient constraints, such as fixed data length s or free text information, should be minimized."

The direction espoused by this statement is that representing flight information in a textual format which must be decoded should be avoided whenever possible. Legacy formats in aviation suffer significantly from the presence of text that needs to be decoded. In the present context this is most readily seen in field 15 (route) and various field 18 items in ATS messages. Whenever such text is present, any receiving system, in order to benefit from the operational content, must decode the text to extract the embedded information. In general, the ATS message information is received by multiple stake holders, and is decoded multiple times, with different systems applying different rules and logic leading to misinterpretation and ambiguity. At worst, this could lead to safety incidents.

The point in employing a formal language such as XML for the representation of information is that the structure and individual data values are delineated by the data representation format. The XML together with the associated schema precisely and unambiguously identify the structure of the information and allow the primitive data values to be easily identified. As a result, the intent of the originator of the information is clear, and the  receiver is able to process the information as intended by the originator. Another example of a problematic legacy format is the  Notice to  Airmen (NOTAM) that often contains large areas of unstructured or semi-structured free text in the E field. Validation of the content of a NOTAM is largely a manual process due to the lack of rules around the free text E field item. AIXM explicitly addresses this problem with the introduction of the Digital NOTAM concept. The various changes to the base resource information have been analysed and codified as 'events', allowing the precise and unambiguous representation of the intent of a NOTAM.

FIXM must achieve for flight information what AIXM achieves for aeronautical resource information. As such, the inherent structure of any flight information must be made explicit in the model. Multiple values must never be coalesced into a single data element that requires a receiver to decode via custom business logic. It is acknowledged that, at times, it is advisable to allow free text items to support legacy systems during the transition to FF-ICE.


## Model and Legacy Concerns
As a result of the need to support legacy approaches during the transition to FF-ICE operations, at times it may be judicious to introduce components in the FIXM model that do not  directly contribute to the FF-ICE operations, but which facilitate integration of legacy systems and formats. This may not always be consistent with a purist FIXM approach, and some guidelines are needed to help resolve such situations.

If a significant change to the model was proposed to provide a relatively small benefit for a legacy approach, we clearly would not want such a change. On the other hand, if a small change to the model provides very significant benefit for legacy systems, then there is strong justification for incorporating the change in the model. Less clear is the situation where the change to the model and the benefits to legacy stakeholders are of a similar magnitude. Such cases should be addressed by the CCB on an individual basis.

One option available is when modifications to the model are proposed purely to assist legacy systems, that those modifications be implemented as FIXM extensions. Where this is relevant to individual stakeholders, it is a local concern and would not be considered for the global FIXM. However, where such a change is relevant to multiple stakeholders, then the required change could become a FIXM extension.

## Historic versus Snapshot
FIXM has adopted the approach that a flight document is a snapshot of the flight containing the information known about the flight at a point in time. However, this approach can be relaxed where specific use cases dictate it is desirable to hold limited historic information. Such information elements must be endorsed by the CCB.

A small amount of historic information was maintained in earlier versions of FIXM, however as of v4 there is none.
If one considers the wide variety of information elements that constitute a flight, and the rate at which these values can change, adopting a 'historic' model would lead to a very large flight information document that could become unwieldy. The maintenance of historic flight information is considered a system implementation concern.

## Reuse of Standards
FIXM does not exist in a vacuum. It co-exists with many other standards, the two most closely related being AIXM and WXXM. FIXM development should be cognizant of the content of these related standards, and seek to re-use definitions where possible rather than creating its own definition for the same concept. Redefinition leads to redundant elements, and ambiguity if the competing definitions are not consistent.

The harmonization of AIXM, FIXM and WXXM is a desirable goal. However, such harmonization is a large undertaking with significant impact on the model. As of FIXM v4 the focus has been to create semantically equivalent elements in the FIXM model. The same approach applies to standards that have more of a foundational nature. For example, the Geography Markup Language {GML) captures generic definitions that are applicable to  aviation, such as the locat ion of an aerodrome, the route of a flight, or the description of the bounds of airspace.

An associated standard is the International Air Transport Association (IATA) Aviation Information Data Exchange (AIDX) standard. This standard is widely employed by aircraft and airport operators, but is also applicable to ASPs for information exchange with these operators. AIDX has a different focus than FIXM; for example, it incorporates data elements for baggage handling and catering.
However, there is an overlap between AIDX and FIXM, and where they overlap semantic consistency should  be achieved. Different  design  approaches have been adopted for AIDX and FIXM, and it seems unlikely they will be harmonized in the manner planned among AIXM, FIXM and WXXM.

